---
layout: post
author: liuxin
title: Diffuse Interface Models for Two-Phase Flows   
date: 2017-08-08
category: 多相流
tags: Two-Fluid Model
---

## Summary 
A finite element method based on a phase-field model for two-phase flow is proposed. The models consist of a Navier-Stokes system coupled with a multi-component Cahn-Hillard system. The Cahn–Hilliard equation [1] is used to estimate interface of the two different phases in the PFM. In particular, a detailed explanation for solving the Cahn–Hilliard equation by using a finite element method is given. 

There are two steps in this project. 

* First, we deal with the basic one phase problem. We calculate the weak form of Naiver-stokes equation, and compute it using finite element method in FEniCS [2], which is a popular open-source python computing platform for solving partial differential equations (PDEs). 

* Second, we go through the two phase flow. We impose capillary tensor in the Naiver-stokes equation, and calculate its weak form. Then compute it using finite element method in FEniCS.

If the project were successful, different flow regimes can be applied like Bubbly flow, Droplet flow, Particle-laden flow, Free-surface flow, and Fluidized beds. Then the graphs of these different flow regimes can be drawn by Python code.

## Background and Problem Statement 

The two-phase flow is involved in many important industrial problems. For example, nuclear reactors use water to remove heat from the reactor core using two-phase flow. Two-phase flows are challenging to study from mathematical modeling and numerical algorithmic points of view.

For mathematical modeling, there are two main approaches to simulating two-phase flow: interface tracking and interface capturing methods. In interface tracking methods (volume-of-fluid, front-tracking, and immersed boundary), Lagrangian particles are used to track the interfaces and are advected by the velocity field. In interface capturing methods (level-set and phase-field methods), the interface is implicitly captured by a contour of a particular scalar function.

For numerical algorithm to compute Navier-Stockes equation, there are finite difference method, finite volume method, and finite element method.

The interface function of the VOF (volume-of-fluid) method is discontinuous at the interface of the liquid and gaseous phases. On the other hand, the interface function of the PFM (phase-field method) varies continuously or smoothly in the vicinity of the interface of the liquid and gaseous phases. In terms of numerical stability, it is more advantageous to solve a function that is continuous at an interface rather than a function that is discontinuous at the interface. Therefore, in this project, we will use phase field method and finite element method.

## Proposed Solution and Concepts 
There are generally four objective in this project:

1. Finite element method Python code for general Naiver-Stokes equation.
2. Imposing capillary tensor in the Naiver-stokes equation, and calculate its weak form.
3. Deducing the Cahn–Hilliard equation.
4. Solving the Cahn–Hilliard equation by using a finite element method.

First, we will solve the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations. There are many difficulties: time-dependence, nonlinearity, and vector-valued variables. Second- order splitting method is applied for the incompressible Navier–Stokes equations, can be implemented with relative ease in FEniCS. 

The incompressible Navier–Stokes equations form a system of equations for the velocity u and pressure p in an incompressible fluid: 

$$ \rho (\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} - u \cdot \nabla u) = \nabla \cdot T(u,p) + f $$

$$ \nabla \cdot u = 0$$

The right-hand side f is a given force per unit volume and just as for the equations of linear elasticity, T(u,p) denotes the stress tensor, which for a Newtonian fluid is given by 

$$ T(u,p) = 2\mu D(u) - p \delta $$

where D(u) is the strain-rate tensor:

$$ D(u) = \frac12 (\nabla u + \nabla u ^T)$$

The parameter $\mu$ is the dynamic viscosity. 




## Reference 
Cahn, J.W. and Hilliard, J.E., 1958. Free energy of a nonuniform system. I. Interface free energy. The Journal of Chemical Physics, 28, 258–267. 

"The FEniCS Project page". The FEniCS Project. Retrieved 12 August 2017.
  

 

